IRIIRI INEZA REFUGEES INITIATIVE (IRI)
	Donate for Refugees




WORK PLAN AND BUDGET FOR 5 YEARS

2025-2030

Introduction
Ineza Refugees Initiative  - Uganda is an independent not-for-profit organization incorporated with the Uganda Registration Services Bureau (URSB), under section 18 (3) of the Companies Act 2012, Registration No: 80034850054909.

Development-oriented people who are determined to contribute towards sustainable development by empowering refugees through increasing access to quality and reliable resources and information formed Ineza Refugees Initiative. The organization is based in  Uganda operates in the whole country.
Goal
Improve Socio-economic transformation and general wellbeing of refugees through research and resource mobilization

Vision, Mission and Values
Ineza Refugees Initiative is proud to welcome refugees and help them to rebuild their lives.
Our vision
A dignified life for all Refugees in Uganda.
Our Mission
We assist Refugees, protect their rights and empower them towards a better future
Our values
Inclusive: We are inclusive. We work with all Refugees and people seeking asylum, so they have an equal voice, co-producing projects and ensuring their expertise and experiences are at the heart of what we do.
Collaborative: We are collaborative, working with Office of the Prime Minister (OPM) and other Refugee NGOs to have a collective impact. We strive for successful and responsible joint efforts with all beneficiaries, donors, partners and others.
Honesty and transparency: Ineza Refugees Initiative is accountable to the people we help, those that support us, and those with whom we collaborate. We are honest and open about what we do and about the choices we make, and if a situation may exceed our ability to provide help.
Independence and neutrality: Ineza Refugees Initiative works exclusively on the basis of its mandate towards the Refugees. Ineza Refugees Initiative focuses on issues concerning refugees, remaining strictly neutral when it comes to party politics. This also means that in conflict settings, our humanitarian work is predicated on the principle of independence and neutrality in regard to the conflicting parties.
v) Humanitarian approach: The right to a dignified life takes precedence over politics and principles. Ineza Refugees Initiative insists on the right of the individual to receive humanitarian aid and on our right and duty to provide such aid, whenever possible, regardless of political circumstance.
Objectives:
To train the most vulnerable families of refugees with basic livelihood skills necessary to empower them participate in their development and self-reliance.
To educate and support women, single mothers, orphans and abandoned children with elementary knowledge on personal health, sexuality and gender related issues.
Promote refugees’ wellbeing, mental health and tackling domestic violence.
Creating economic opportunities to help them to get out of seismic poverty and shortage and to embrace sustainable development.
To create cohesion between refugees and hosting Refugees via activities that generate common development.
Empower refugees to be their own advocates on the issues affecting their rights and life.
To strengthen the capacities of Refugees through action planning and training, improve resilience to disaster, and enable dialogue and collaboration between stakeholders.

Program areas
To achieve our objectives and realize our vision , Ineza Refugees Initiative conceptualized five key programmatic areas;

Agribusiness and Food Nutrition
Under this program, Ineza Refugees Initiative intends to provide Refugees with knowledge, skills and financial resources to utilize the available agricultural resources and market opportunities to improve their livelihoods. The focus will be on agribusiness development and improving smallholder-farming techniques, with a commitment to transforming Refugees from subsistence to market-oriented farming.

Strategic goal: To promote household agricultural output and food and nutrition security through research, Refugees sensitization and mobilization.

Objectives:
To provide evidence-based information from production to processing and marketing to distribution of household agricultural resources.
To facilitate Refugees mobilization on nutrition and nutrition behavioural change communication using ‘Food nutrition champions’
To empower women and girls to utilize agribusiness opportunities to improve household food and nutrition security

Program activities:
Baseline survey, including SWOT analysis of agribusiness
Training in developing agribusiness entrepreneurship and agribusiness value chains
Situation analysis of nutrition status to identify practicable and sustainable interventions
Identification and training (seminars and workshops) of Refugees ‘Food nutrition champions’
Train women and girls on good nutrition practices

Expected outputs:
Baseline report on agribusiness
Training curriculum and report
Trained Food nutrition champions
Trained women and girls

Primary Health Care
This program area will be at the forefront of research on the emerging primary health care services such as child health and safe motherhood. We will generate evidence that leads to stronger and more responsive health systems able to address specific health needs of the vulnerable children. To support build more resilient health systems, our program will address knowledge gaps related to management and delivery of child health and development services at the Refugees level.

Based on evidence generated, Ineza Refugees Initiative will provide basic health care services to the underprivileged children especially those in hard-to-reach areas. We will have a Refugees outreach programme where a Refugees health worker or village health team conducts Refugees meetings or home visits to build awareness about primary health care services like immunization, breastfeeding, child growth monitoring, pregnancy, family planning, health-checkups and counselling. Ineza Refugees Initiative will collaborate with private and public health facilities act as referral centres.

Strategic goal:
To facilitate better access to comprehensive health care services and improve health outcomes

Objectives:
To provide health education and counselling
First aid treatment
Referral for complicated cases

Program activities:
Baseline survey (KAP) on primary health care services
Recruitment and training of service providers
Development of IEC materials
Refugees sensitization and mobilization
Conduct Refugees meetings and home visits
Organize Mother and Child Health Days at health centers
Conduct Radio and/or TV Talk shows

Expected outputs:
Number of clients served by type of service
Recruited and Trained VHTs or CHWs
Number of clients referred

Education
Ineza Refugees Initiative will support primary education children, specifically the most vulnerable children in the hard-to-reach areas. We shall provide tuition (school fees), uniform and scholastic materials like books and pens.

Strategic goal:
To empower children with knowledge and skills to enable them transform their families and Refugees.

Objectives:
To ensure access to quality primary education to vulnerable children in the hard-to-reach areas
To increase the  number of children (boys and girls) regularly attending school

Program activities:
Baseline survey of school-going age children
Identification of vulnerable children using parents’ interviews, LC and Opinion leaders’ recommendations, and profiling them
Identification of schools and sign MoUs to support children
Support children (boys and girls) with tuition, uniform and scholastic materials

Expected outputs:
Survey report disseminated to all stakeholders
Number of vulnerable children(boys and girls) supported with tuition, uniform and scholastic materials
Number of schools participating in the project
Number of children regularly attending school

Youth Empowerment:
Under this program area, Ineza Refugees Initiative will provide youth with opportunities for meaningful involvement in Refugees development. This will involve providing entrepreneurship development and capacity building activities to the youths, while encouraging them to take control of their lives, with adult support. The program will create a positive setting for youth to develop their Refugees.

Strategic goal:
To contribute to the socio-economic transformation of youth by providing youth-led entrepreneurship skills and capacity building services

Objectives:
To improve youth livelihoods through sustainable  economic activities
To develop a youth-led entrepreneurship program along the agricultural and food supply chains
 To equip youth with skills to enhance employability and entrepreneurship in small scale businesses

Program activities:
Baseline survey of youth entrepreneurship
Mobilization of youths about the potential of youth entrepreneurship programs
Training of youth in entrepreneurship skills
Recruitment of peer youth entrepreneurship leaders
Formation of youth groups or associations to help market youth products and SACCO to encourage saving culture

Expected outputs:
Baseline report on Youth entrepreneurship
Youth mobilized and trained
Peer youth entrepreneurship leaders
Youth groups or associations formed








Logical Framework


Work frame

Key:
ED = Executive Director
RO = Refugee Officer





Budget estimates (Annual)


Office Requirements/Facilitation

TOTAL (Annual)  = UGX 3,061,174,500

GRAND TOTAL (5 Years) = UGX 15,305,872,500
